PMM-11226 OLM Known issues (#1835)
percona/pmm: docs/dbaas/olm.md

---
slug: 'dbaas'
---

## How OLM (Operator Lifecycle Manager) works.

> DBaaS levearge the installation and upgrade of operators on OLM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DBaaS leverages the installation and upgrade of operators on OLM.
```

To install an operator, we need to create an operator group and a subscription.

> The official documentation withe detailed examples can be found [here](https://olm.operatorframework.io/docs/tasks/install-operator-with-olm/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The official documentation with detailed examples can be found [here](https://olm.operatorframework.io/docs/tasks/install-operator-with-olm/).
```

> DBaaS installs several operators by default:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
DBaaS installs the following operators by default:
```

- OLM 
- DBaaS
- PSMDB
- PXC

You can manually list the subscriptions using kubectl:
```
kubectl get subscriptions
NAME                                 PACKAGE                           SOURCE                  CHANNEL
my-percona-server-mongodb-operator   percona-server-mongodb-operator   operatorhubio-catalog   stable
my-percona-xtradb-cluster-operator   percona-xtradb-cluster-operator   operatorhubio-catalog   stable
```

> ### Known issue.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Known issue
```

> If you have 2 or more operators pending for installation approval, the second subscription OLM creates

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When two or more operators are pending installation approval, OLM creates a second subscription that includes both operators. 
```

will have both operators. Listing the install plans could be confusing. For example:
```
kubectl get installplans
NAME            CSV                                       APPROVAL   APPROVED
install-9rxvz   percona-server-mongodb-operator.v1.13.1   Manual     false
install-mghbh   percona-server-mongodb-operator.v1.13.1   Manual     false
```

> It seems like both install plans are for PSMDB but examining the install plans individually can shed some light on the matter:

Reviewer 2: I don't think this sentence is required.

Author: In my opinion, it is necessary. It describes the actual issue.

Author: @rasika-chivate can we keep this or can you help me to rephrase it?
In my opinion it is necessary because it describes the root cause of the problem.

Reviewer 2: Can we rephrase to something" Although PSMDB appears in both install plans, examining each plan individually can provide insight into the scenario:"

> First install plan:

Reviewer 2: Could we just briefly describe what exactly is install plan is?

spec:
  approval: Manual
  approved: false
  clusterServiceVersionNames:
  - percona-server-mongodb-operator.v1.13.1
  generation: 1
```

Second install plan:
```
kubectl get installplan install-mghbh -oyaml
apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: InstallPlan
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: "2023-03-07T12:41:46Z"
  generateName: install-
  generation: 1
  labels:
    operators.coreos.com/percona-xtradb-cluster-operator.default: ""
  name: install-mghbh
  namespace: default
  ownerReferences:
  - apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1
    blockOwnerDeletion: false
    controller: false
    kind: Subscription
    name: my-percona-server-mongodb-operator
    uid: 2581b852-36b3-41e3-92f0-02a4f2ebb05d
  - apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1
    blockOwnerDeletion: false
    controller: false
    kind: Subscription
    name: my-percona-xtradb-cluster-operator
    uid: 6796d009-9a29-49b4-af9b-6af09a895317
  resourceVersion: "1314"
  uid: f6a87327-1f60-4cae-8b7a-d881c8c522c2
spec:
  approval: Manual
  approved: false
  clusterServiceVersionNames:
  - percona-server-mongodb-operator.v1.13.1
  - percona-xtradb-cluster-operator.v1.12.0
  generation: 2
```

> The second install plan shows in the spec section it will handle the installation of both operators:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Spec section of the second install plan indicates it will handle the installation of both operators:
```

```
spec:
  approval: Manual
  approved: false
  clusterServiceVersionNames:
  - percona-server-mongodb-operator.v1.13.1
  - percona-xtradb-cluster-operator.v1.12.0
```

> so, only when getting the install plan details in yaml or json format we can see which operators are being handled by the install plan.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So, only when getting the install plan details in yaml or json format we can see which operators are being handled by the install plan.
```

> So, only when getting the install plan details in yaml or json format we can see which operators are being handled by the install plan.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We can only determine the operators being handled by an install plan if we receive the details in YAML or JSON format.```

> The short version `kubectl get installplans` will show only the first operator in the list and this can ve confusing and misleading. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The short version `kubectl get installplans` will show only the first operator in the list and this can be confusing and misleading. 
```

> The short version `kubectl get installplans` will show only the first operator in the list and this can be confusing and misleading. 

Reviewer 2: Can we put this as a note?
